Welcome back.
Now I told you there are two pillars in javascript that are really really important and powerful.
One was closures and we cover that but now it's time to learn about prototypes and specifically prototype
all inheritance.
Let's see if you find this as fascinating as closures.
Now I have to give you a bit of a warning.
This part is going to be really tough.
It may seem convoluted at times you may have to revisit the videos a few times but keep in mind what
we're going to learn here will help us understand object oriented programming coming up in the next
section.
So hang in there because some of this is going to overflow into the next section where you're going
to learn more and more.
All right you ready.
Hope I don't scare you off.
Let's get started.
Remember this diagram I told you that arrays and functions are just objects in javascript let's dive
a little deeper into this.
You see javascript uses something called prototype all inheritance.
You see these chains over here.
Their prototype all inheritance.
And what does that mean.
Well inheritance is an object getting access to the properties and methods of another object.
So what I'm saying here is that the array object.
Again remember everything is an object in the array object gets access to the properties and methods
of the object in JavaScript.
And same with functions through this chain that we call prototype all inheritance functions get access
to the methods and properties of objects.
Now let's demonstrate this in code there's a special way that we can actually see this chain.
This prototype all inheritance in JavaScript.
If I create an array here let's say array just an empty array and I do array dot underscore underscore
Frodo for prototype prototyping inheritance and then underscore underscore and I hit enter.
I get this thing it looks like an array.
And if I open it up.
Yeah it looks like an array right.
I have all this reduce push pop map methods that arrays get.
What happened here.
Well I created a new array in this new array was created from yes this big array box over here what
we call a constructor.
This array created our array variable that contained while an empty array and I did dot underscore underscore
Prado underscore underscore to go up the prototype chain and get into this array.
So by that theory if I go up the prototype chain I should get an object right.
Let's have a look.
If I go back and do array dot protocol and then go up the prototype type chain again I get the object
or Ruby called the base object.
This is the object that everything in JavaScript gets created from including functions and including
a race and we see that we have some properties on here.
For example we have the two string method over here which means that anything that is a descendant of
an object will get the two string method.
So that means that an array such as our array over here has the two string method on it.
Look at that.
Because of this prototype chain remember what I said initially.
An object gets access to the properties and methods of another object through the prototype chain.
Let's further this example this time around let's create a function function a and this function a well
is just empty once again.
If I go up the prototype chain what do you think we'll get I get this f over here.
A native function and this is our base function where all functions are created from so that if I go
up the prototype chain again what do you think we'll get yes we go back to that object that base object
that all objects come from all right.
One last example let's say I create an object object one and this is going to be an empty object.
But let's refresh to make sure that we haven't declared it before.
Now if I do object one dot Kroto What do you think will happen we get the base object.
Again this base object is this one over here right.
I created from this object my own object variable and that inherits has a prototype chain up to the
space object and this is what prototype all inheritance is.
It's a concept that over the next couple of videos we're going to understand why it's so useful to us
as a matter of fact.
This feature is actually quite unique and not that common in other popular languages like C sharp or
Java.
They use something called classical inheritance.
Javascript uses prototype all inheritance.
Now even though in JavaScript we do have the class keyword and it's something that we're going to talk
about in the object oriented programming section of the course in JavaScript.
This is what we call syntactic sugar.
There's actually no classes in JavaScript.
We only have prototype all inheritance.
So what is this whole prototype chain.
Why is it useful.
Well we just started here so let's dive a little bit deeper in the next video.